# about
hi! i'm alex, and i do a lot of programming and electronics projects for old things. i also watch an extreme number of movies and sometimes write about those.

## contact me / services i'm on
=> mailto:alex@nytpu.com alex@nytpu.com
=> /pubkey.asc gpg key
  fingerprint: 43A5 890C EE85 EA1F 8C88 9492 ECCD C07B 337B 8F5B
=> https://getaether.net @nytpu on aether
  (aether://user/22262a061f1dca376d8640a1ada3364ac3307b370bfbf868c1ea4cf64d4e2c38)
=> https://tilde.zone/@nytpu @nytpu@tilde.zone on mastodon
=> https://tilde.team/~nytpu/ tilde.team
=> https://tildegit.org/nytpu tildegit
=> https://letterboxd.com/nytpu/ letterboxd
=> https://bandcamp.com/nytpu bandcamp

## faq about me
q: why are you so self-deprecating?
a: because it's true

q: why are you obsessed with such weird things?
a: because i'm a crazy person

q: why do you use gemini?
a: well if you're reading this then you're using it too, and are probably pretty far down the rabbit hole to find me, so you probably already know the most common answers to that

## copyright
this site is © 2020 nytpu
=> https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0.html the source of this gemsite is covered under the terms of the gnu affero general public license.
=> https://tildegit.org/nytpu/gemini-nytpu.com/ the source is available here. i moved it to github because i felt bad taking up so much space (~400mib) on tildegit

=> https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/ all content on this site, unless otherwise noted, is licensed under the terms of the creative commons attribution-noncommercial 4.0 license.
