```gemini archive
     _______                               _       _
    /   |   \        ____ ____  ____ ___  (_)___  (_)
    |   |   |       / __ `/ _ \/ __ `__ \/ / __ \/ /
    |___|___|      / /_/ /  __/ / / / / / / / / / /
   /       __\     \__, /\___/_/ /_/ /_/_/_/ /_/_/
  /        |  \   /____/                   __    _
 /         | ()\          ____ ___________/ /_  (_)   _____
/  UNITED  | ,  \        / __ `/ ___/ ___/ __ \/ / | / / _ \
|   STATES |____|       / /_/ / /  / /__/ / / / /| |/ /  __/
|_______________|       \__,_/_/   \___/_/ /_/_/ |___/\___/
```

I'm christening this project the “Project Gemini Gemini Archive.” Really rolls off the tongue doesn't it? It's meant to be a semi-comprehensive archive of everything about Project Gemini hosted in geminispace. So far I'm planning to pull from:
=> http://tothemoon.ser.asu.edu/gallery/Gemini the nasa/arizona state university gemini archive
=> https://www.ibiblio.org/apollo/Gemini.html virtual agc's page detailing the gemini spacecraft computer
=> https://www.ibiblio.org/apollo/links.html#Gemini_spacecraft_computer virtual agc's page of documents and schematics for project gemini

I may also add some select pieces from Project Mercury and the Apollo Program too, but I'm focusing on Project Gemini first.

=> obc.gmi Gemini Spacecraft On-Board Computer Technical Information
=> img/ Image Archive (WIP)
=> files/ Document and Software Archive

=> faq.gmi questions frequently asked


⁂

=> / go back home

=> https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/ all works created by nytpu on this page, unless otherwise noted, are licensed under the terms of the creative commons cc0 public domain dedication.
=> https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/ all works that originated from the virtual agc project are licensed under the terms of the creative commons cc0 public domain dedication.
=> http://tothemoon.ser.asu.edu/about arizona state university's march to the moon archive have granted non-express permission to use their works for personal, educational, and research uses.
=> https://www.usa.gov/government-works all works that originated from the united states government are placed in the public domain.
=> https://www.govinfo.gov/app/details/CFR-2016-title14-vol5/CFR-2016-title14-vol5-part1221 nasa insignia, including mission insignia and logotypes, have restricted use under 14 cfr 1221.
